Welcome back everyone to the lecture on mask and classifiers with Quanto open pipeline's masking allows
us to tell our pipeline to ignore assets altogether before the factors are filter's even really take
place.
We can pass in the mask parameter to both factors and filters.
Now previously we went ahead and applied filters through the screen mechanism at the very end of the
pipeline.
That means that we still had to calculate things like the simple moving average for each individual
asset.
Using masking allows us to save a lot of computational work by actually applying that mask during that
factor step classifiers which we discussed earlier but haven't actually seen yet taken Assa and the
time stamp in return a categorical values such as a sector or an exchange.
Let's go out and see a few quick examples of both masking and classifiers and then we'll see how we
can use classifiers as filters themselves.
Hop over to the notebook now OK.
Here we have the make pipe line function from earlier and remember we have the 10 day simple moving
average as well as the 30 day simple moving average and the latest close price than we calculated a
percent difference.
And we also have two filters here which we combine to create a final filter.
Notice that this final filter it doesn't actually take place until we actually screen for it.
That means we had to calculate the simple moving averages for everything.
Let's go ahead and show you how you can kind of pasan a filter to be a mask for these factors right
here to save yourself some computational effort.
The first are going to do as little bit or refractory will grab the latest clothes and calculate that
first in our pipeline here so will first calculate the latest closing price and then we're going to
say this small price filter be created where the latest clothes is less than 5.
The reason we do that is because we're going to need this filter to exist.
By the time we actually do our factors are simple moving averages and the way we do this is for masking.
We're going to just pass a parameter mask and said equal to small price and we'll do the exact same
thing over here.
We'll say a mask is equal to is equal to small price and what that actually does is it applies that
filter first before actually calculating these simple moving averages versus actually just doing it
at the very end through a screen.
So that's going to save you a lot of computational effort.
Now simple moving averages are pretty easy computationally speaking but for other more complex computations
that are more involved for a factor you definitely want to use a mask and it's easy enough.
You just Pessin the mass parameter into your actual factor.
So let's go ahead and run this and that is what we get.
So we basically get the same result.
All the latest clothes prices happened to be less than $5 and we have the three they mean close as well
as the percent difference and we have this filter column which you can kind of get rid of if you want
to.
Now let's go ahead and move on and show you how to use classifiers.
I remember classifiers a function that takes in an asset and a moment in time or a time stamp and then
provide some sort of categorical output.
So it's going to feel really familiar.
If you remember the get fundamentals so the fundamentals used at Morningstar.
So I'll do a couple of imports here.
Let me zoom in one more level so we can see these imports.
We'll say from Quanto in the pipeline.
Data Import Morningstar.
And then we'll also save from Quanto in the pipeline.
Classifiers thoughts.
And you notice there's several classifiers here.
We're going to use Morningstar because that's something we kind of reviewed back in the fundamentals
although you can always check the documentation for the other sets.
We'll see.
Import.
If you hit tab here you can get sector so let's show you an example of what a really simple classifier
looks like.
We can say Morningstar underscore sector is equal to an instance of sector.
And then if you actually check out what Morningstar sector is you'll notice it's this asset class cations
that Morningstar sector code.
So this should feel familiar from get fundamentals or get fundamentals basically had the 13 categories
and then those fundamental values.
So you can use those.
A lot of them at least as classifiers things are return back some sort of categorical output.
So you can use this morning story here to kind of filter out these manually.
So what I mean by that if you say Morningstar dot and then hit tab you'll notice you have those 13 categories
from fundamentals.
So you can do something like Come over here type share class preference hit dot and then you'll see
the fundamental data that's available to you off share class reference.
So something that's a categorical value maybe something like the exchange ID and then offer that you
can actually call latest.
So if we make this equal to exchange and then we type in exchange we notice that it's sort of the latest
subject but this is actually a classifier now classifiers by themselves like this at least aren't super
useful.
Instead we usually want to do is maybe build a filter from a classifier.
So since classifiers are typically going to output categorical output in the form of a string it's really
common to use three particular methods of clawfoot classifiers.
And that is the EQM method so that each Q And that stands for equals.
The is no method to check something is null.
And then finally the starts with method that is starts with.
Similar to a strings on method for starts with.
So commonly you're going to be using equals because you want to check something's equal or maybe not
equal to a particular category.
So let's go ahead and we'll grab our exchange on it and we'll say offer this.
And then you notice since it's essentially a string ends with etc..
But the most common ones are equals is null starts with.
You can always experiment depending on your needs.
But we're going to say is equal to the string and waits for the New York Stock Exchange and we'll call
this The New York Stock Exchange filter.
So we have this sort of filter object and let's go ahead and pass this sort of filter in this categorical
filter a classifier filter back into our pipeline function.
So I'm going to select everything and say this make pipelined Let's zoom back out a level so can get
a bigger picture here going to copy this bring this back down and then show you how you can get this
classified filter.
So we're going to copy this filter that we just created put it in here and we'll call this the classifier
and then we're going to do is pass that in.
So over here we're already checking for a small price in the masks.
So instead of that we're going to say and for our final filter pass in the New York Stock Exchange filter
so that you can use a classifier for a filter.
So essentially the main idea is you're going to say from plant up in that pipeline that classifiers
you can hit tab here and see the various options and then you can decide on Morningstar and so that's
what we're really most used to from get fundamentals.
And then you can grab those essentially 13 attributes and more attributes from those sub selections.
Once you've done that you can call different string methods such as equal starts with ends with is null
et cetera.
And then you can create a filter.
Don't you have a filter based off of this.
You essentially use it just as we've done before.
So I'm going to run this and then I'll go ahead and take our results pipeline
copy that.
Bring that back down.
Run that as well.
Let's check out the results at least the head of it.
So you know we have equities 2 5 8 6 3 2 6 5 3 6 4 5 etc..
So let's just see the info on this and wups.
There we go.
So we get back sixty seven entries.
Now let's go ahead and run this one right here.
This is before we actually added in that crossfire and see how many entries we got with this.
So instead of saying head here going say info and Lotusphere 391 injuries so it's clearly being filtered
by things that are only on the New York Stock Exchange so we can see that our classifier filter is working.
So again we come back down here notice that we got only six or seven entries and that's because these
are only the ones that are in the New York Stock Exchange.
Okay.
So there's definitely a lot more to talk about as far as pipelines are concerned.
There's a lot more detail we could jump into but we know enough now to actually implement our own trading
algorithms using pipelines.
So the very last step to all of this discussion is just to show you a little more of a realistic example
kind of tagging and putting everything together to create a pipeline using Quanto paeans ID.
So let's go ahead and do that in the next lecture.
Thanks and I'll see you there.